The Project Gutenberg eBook, Rules of the Western Grammar School,
Brompton, by Western Grammar School, Brompton


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Rules of the Western Grammar School, Brompton


Author: Western Grammar School, Brompton



Release Date: May 9, 2020  [eBook #62064]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RULES OF THE WESTERN GRAMMAR
SCHOOL, BROMPTON***


Transcribed from the [1832?] Tilling edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                        [Picture: Pamphlet cover]





                                  RULES
                                  OF THE
                         Western Grammar School,
                                BROMPTON.


The following Gentlemen have been elected Honorary Officers of the
Institution:

                               _President_,

              SIR THEOPHILUS LEE, Crescent House, Brompton.

                            _Vice-Presidents_,

HON. & REV. GERARD VALERIAN WELLESLEY, D.D. Rectory House, Chelsea.
REV. HENRY BLUNT, A.M.  Sloane Street.
F. C. PARRY, Esq. A.M. F.A.S.E. 4, Onslow Terrace, Brompton.
T. STAVELEY, Esq. 9, Brompton Square.

                           _Joint Treasurers_,

C. THISLETON, Esq. 4, White Hall.
H. W. BURGESS, Esq. 134, Sloane Street.
CAPTAIN G. HARRIS, R.N. C.B. 8, Brompton Crescent.

                               _Secretary_,

E. KNOWLES, Esq. 22, Brompton Crescent.

                               _Physician_,

JAMES VEITCH, Esq. M.D. Cadogan Place.

                               _Surgeons_,

GEORGE WOOLLEY, Esq. 8, Brompton Row.
GEORGE GLEN, Esq. 18, ditto.

                               _Architect_,

W. F. POCOCK, Esq. 10, Trevor Terrace.

                               _Committee_,

1.  REV. J. F. LATEWARD, A.M. Kensington.
2.  REV. JOHN MORISON, 1, Hans Place.
3.  REV. R. H. SHEPHERD, 9, Palace Street, Pimlico.
4.  E. J. CLARK, Esq. M.D. Hyde Park Place, West.
5.  CAPTAIN PEEVOR, 36, Church Street, Chelsea.
6.  W. JERDAN, Esq. Grove House, Brompton.
7.  B. P. HOBART, Esq. 24, Brompton Crescent.
8.  S. SMITH, Esq. 14, South Parade, Chelsea.
9.  W. LEACH, Esq. Manor Street, ditto.
10.  SETH SMITH, Esq. Wilton Place.
11.  . . .
12.  . . .

                                * * * * *

                               _Auditors_,

1.  SAMUEL SHEPHERD, Esq. Marlborough Square.
2.  NICHOLAS GRAT, Esq. Robert Street, Chelsea.

                                _Bankers_.

                  MESSRS. COCKBURN, and Co. White Hall.




RULES
OF THE
Western Grammar School,
BROMPTON.


SECTION I.
_Of the Institution_, _and the Proprietors_.


RULE I.  The Institution shall be divided into One Hundred Shares, the
holders of which shall be deemed and called the Proprietors; no
Proprietor being entitled to hold more than three Shares. {1}

RULE II.  Each Proprietor shall pay into the hands of the Treasurers,
(Sect. IV. Rule VI.) Fifteen Pounds for each Share he or she may hold.

RULE III.  Each Proprietor shall pay to the Treasurers an annual sum of
Nine Guineas, by equal quarterly payments, in advance, for each Share he
or she may hold; the said sums to be payable on the first Monday in the
Months of January, April, July, and October, in every Year, at the
Committee Room, between the hours of One and Three.

RULE IV.  Until such person shall have paid to the Treasurers such sum of
Fifteen Pounds, he or she shall not be held to be a Proprietor.

RULE.  V.  Each Proprietor shall subscribe his or her Name to the
Declaration hereinafter mentioned, (See p. 19;) and until such
Declaration shall be signed, no person whatever shall be held to be a
Proprietor, nor be entitled to any privilege, right, or interest
whatever, in this Institution.

RULE VI.  Each Proprietor shall be answerable for his or her quarterly,
and all other payments, whether he or she have a Nominee in the School or
not.

RULE VII.  If any Proprietor shall neglect to pay to the Treasurers the
amount of his or her Subscription, and other monies which may be due by
such Proprietor, for 28 days after the same shall have become due, he or
she shall forfeit the sum of 10_s_; and if, after notice being given by
the Secretary of such penalty having been incurred, such Proprietor do
not pay the amount of his or her Subscription, together with the penalty,
within the period of 28 days, then such Proprietor's Share or Shares
shall be forfeited; and such Proprietor, his or her Heirs, Executors,
Administrators, and Assigns, shall have no right, interest, property, or
privilege, in the Institution, or in any part thereof; provided,
nevertheless, that such Proprietor may appeal to a Special General
Meeting, by giving notice of such his or her intention to the Secretary,
on or before the day when his or her next Subscription would have become
due; and at such General Meeting it shall be determined whether any, and
what relief shall be given.

RULE VIII.  Every Proprietor shall have the privilege of nominating to
the School one Pupil, in respect of each Share he or she may hold: such
Pupil, if the son, grand-son, step-son, brother, or nephew, of the
nominating Proprietor, shall be admitted without ballot; but if not so
related to the nominating Proprietor, he shall not be admitted without
the previous consent of the Committee of Proprietors; such consent to be
ascertained by ballot, (Sect. II. Rule IV.) and such ballot not to be
made, unless the Nominator do give fourteen days previous notice thereof
to the Secretary; which notice shall contain the name of the Nominee, and
the names, rank, station in life, and residence of his Parents or
Guardians.

RULE IX.  The Proprietors shall be at liberty to transfer or bequeath
their several Shares: but in every case of a transfer, the Purchaser or
Grantee shall be first approved of by ballot, at a General Meeting of the
Committee.  Every Purchaser or Grantee having been so approved of, shall
be entitled to all the advantages of an original Proprietor.

RULE X.  Any person having a Proprietor's Share bequeathed to him, or
inheriting such Share, or taking it under Letters of Administration, may
nominate a Pupil in respect to such Share; such Pupil to be admitted by
ballot only.

RULE XI.  Any person obtaining a Share as above, may be admitted as a
Proprietor, by ballot, subject to his or her signing the Declaration
hereinafter mentioned.

RULE XII.  Any Proprietor, on giving previous notice to the Secretary, of
his or her intention, shall have the power of inspecting the Minutes of
the Committee at any General Meeting of the Proprietors.



SECTION II.
_Of the Meetings of Proprietors_.


RULE I.  AN Annual General Meeting of the Proprietors shall be holden at
the School Room on the last Monday in April, at Two o'Clock precisely, of
which notice shall be given; the business of such Meeting being to elect
to the vacancies in the Committee, as hereinafter provided for, (Sect.
III. Rule II.) to receive a Report, and hear the Minutes of the Committee
for the preceding year; to pas» the Treasurers Accounts; and to enquire
generally into the affairs of the Institution.

RULE II.  No proposition for making an alteration in the Roles of the
Institution, or for forming any new Rule, shall be considered at a
General Meeting, except on a requisition, signed by Ten Proprietors, to
be delivered to the Secretary, at least thirty days before such General
Meeting: the Secretary shall make known to the body of Proprietors the
nature of the subject to be discussed; but no such proposition for
alteration in the Rules shall be finally decided upon, except at a
subsequent Special General Meeting, to be summoned for the purpose.

RULE III.  Special General Meetings of the Proprietors may be holden at
the Institution, whenever the Committee hereinafter named may deem it
necessary, or whenever an appeal is made to the authority of such
Meeting; the Secretary, on the direction of the Committee, or at the
request, in writing, of the Appellant, to convene such Meeting, giving
each Proprietor at least seven days notice thereof, stating the hour and
place of meeting, and the subject to be laid before the Proprietors: such
Meeting may also be convened by the Secretary, with the like notice, upon
his being requested to do so by a requisition signed by seven
Proprietors.

RULE IV.  All questions at General Meetings shall be decided by a
majority of the Proprietors, except on occasions of balloting for a
Proprietor or Nominee, when not less than three-fourths of the votes
given shall be deemed to constitute a majority.

RULE V.  All Lady Proprietors not attending any General Meeting, may vote
by Proxy, to be tendered by a Proprietor; but no Proprietor shall be
allowed to hold more than one Proxy, and the said Proxy shall not have
effect for more than one Meeting.

RULE VI.  The President or Chairman for the time being shall, at all
Meetings, have a casting vote.

RULE VII.  Any General Meeting, Special or Annual, may be adjourned for
the purpose of concluding any business regularly before it, of which
adjournment no special notice shall be given.

RULE VIII.  Whenever notice is to be given to any Proprietor on any
subject, it is to be understood that a letter sent to his or her last or
usual place of residence, shall be deemed sufficient.



SECTION III.
_Of the Government of the Institution_, _and Duties of the Committee_.


RULE I.  The affairs of the Institution shall be under the management and
direction of

  A President,

  Vice Presidents,

  Three Joint Treasurers,

  A Secretary,

  A Physician,

  Two Surgeons,

  An Architect,

and twelve other Proprietors, any five of whom shall be competent to act
as a Committee.

RULE II.  Of the Officers and the twelve other Proprietors, constituting
the Committee of Management of the Institution, eight shall go out
annually, and a like number be elected in their stead; the eight who go
out to be however eligible for re-election.  The first Re-election to
take place at the Annual General Meeting in the year 1832; but,
nevertheless, no such Re-election shall take place, unless a Requisition
for that purpose be made by twelve Proprietors, and sent to the Secretary
thirty days prior to the Annual General Meeting.  In the event of such
Election being required, the eight Members of the Committee who retire
shall be those who have attended the least frequently at the previous
Meetings of the Committee.

RULE III.  The Committee shall have power from time to time to make such
Provisional Rules and Regulations respecting the conduct and management
of the School, and the general affairs of the Institution, as they may
deem necessary: such Provisional Rules and Regulations shall have force
until the next General Meeting of Proprietors, when they shall be
confirmed or annulled, as the Proprietors may see fit.

RULE IV.  Any vacancy occurring in the Offices or Committee during the
year, may be supplied by the Committee, at a Special Meeting to be called
for that purpose, by election, either from their own body, or from the
Proprietors at large.

RULE V.  The Committee shall hold their Meetings on the first Tuesday
Evening in every Month, and oftener when they shall consider it
necessary, on such days, and at such places, as they may from time to
time appoint.

RULE VI.  The Committee shall, at their Monthly Meetings, choose two of
their body, as _Visitors_, for the succeeding month: such Visitors shall
be the only Proprietors having right of access to the School during
School hours, [except as hereinafter provided;] but the Visitors may at
any time introduce into the School, at their discretion, any other
Proprietor or Stranger.

RULE VII.  The Visitors shall not interfere with the internal Regulations
of the School, but shall inspect the School at least once a week, and
shall report to the General Committee any irregularities or improprieties
they may observe.



SECTION IV.
_Special Duties of the Officers_.


RULE I.  The President, or one of the Vice-Presidents, shall preside at
all Meetings, or, in their absence, such other Proprietor shall preside
as may be appointed provisionally.

RULE II.  The President or Provisional Chairman shall have a casting vote
at all Meetings.  (See Sect. II. Rule VII.)

RULE III.  The President or Provisional Chairman shall sign the Minutes
of Proceedings made at all Meetings.

RULE IV.  The President shall have charge of the Original of the
Declaration and Signatures of the Proprietors of the Institution, and
shall also have the custody of the Register of Shares.

RULE V.  The President shall sign all Certificates of Shares and
Transfers of Shares.

RULE VI.  The Treasurers shall receive all monies payable or due to the
Institution, and shall place the same to the account of the Institution
at the Bankers.

RULE VII.  The Treasurers shall make all payments by draft on the
Bankers, to be countersigned by the Secretary, or, in his absence, by a
Deputy: the signature of one Treasurer to such draft shall be sufficient.
Their accounts shall be made up at the usual Quarter Days, and audited,
ready to be presented at the then next periodical Meeting of the
Committee.

RULE VIII.  The Secretary shall conduct and record the Correspondence of
the Institution, and keep Minutes of the Proceedings of the Committee,
and of the General Meetings of Proprietors.

RULE IX.  He shall convene all Meetings by Written Notices.

RULE X.  He shall fill up and countersign all Certificates of Shares, and
Transfers of Shares.

RULE XI.  He shall have the custody of all the Printed Copies of the
Rules of the Institution.

RULE XII.  He shall keep the Duplicate of the Declaration, signed by the
Proprietors.

RULE XIII.  He shall be a Member of all Committees, and, in his absence,
a Deputy may be appointed at any Meeting then assembled.

RULE XIV.  The Medical Officers shall, as often as they deem it
expedient, or may be required by the Committee, visit the School for the
purpose of ascertaining the state of cleanliness and ventilation of the
School, and all other matters that may conduce to the health of the Boys;
and shall make such Report to the Committee as the case may require.

RULE XV.  They shall particularly attend to any appearance of contagious,
infectious, or epidemic disorders, and if they apprehend the existence of
any such disorders, or have reasonable grounds to expect that they may be
likely to appear, they shall forthwith report the same to the Committee,
or take such steps as the urgency of the case may require.

RULE XVI.  The Architect shall from time to time examine the Buildings
belonging to the Institution, and report upon the state of the same,
suggesting to the Committee what alterations, improvements, or repairs,
may be necessary.  He shall superintend all the alterations and repairs,
and examine the estimates and charges for the same, and report whether
the works be properly done, and whether the costs be reasonable.

RULE XVII.  There shall be two Auditors appointed at every Annual General
Meeting, who shall audit the Accounts of the Institution, and report
thereon to the Committee.—The Auditors shall not be Members of the
Committee.



SECTION V.
_Of the Masters_.


RULE I.  There shall be the following Masters—A Head Master, a Second
Master, an Assistant Master, a French Master, and a Drawing Master.

RULE II.  The Masters shall be elected as often as occasion may require,
by the Committee, by ballot.

RULE III.  The Head and Second Masters shall be Graduates of the
University of Oxford, or of Cambridge.

RULE IV.  The Committee shall have the assistance of the Head Master in
examining the competence of the Assistant Master.

RULE V.  None of the Masters shall be subject to removal from their
respective Offices, except on account of non-adherence to the Rules of
the Institution, inability, incapacity, negligence, immoral conduct, or
other sufficient cause; their removal to be determined upon by the
Committee, at a Special Meeting to be convened for that purpose.

Three Calendar Months' notice, in writing, shall be given by the
Secretary to any Master intended to be removed, except for any flagrant
misconduct, or gross immorality; in which cases the dismissal shall be
immediate.

Any Master intending to resign his Office, shall give three Calendar
Months' notice, in writing, of such his intention to the Secretary.

RULE VI.  The internal regulation of the School shall be under the
management of the Head Master, who shall carry into effect the system of
education specified in these Rules, subject to the control of the
Committee.

RULE VII.  The Head Master shall keep a Register of the Scholars, in such
form as the Committee shall determine.

RULE VIII.  The Head Master shall also keep a Register of the progress
made by the Pupils in the course of their studies; which Register shall
be open to the inspection of the Visitors, and be produced to the
Committee at their periodical Meetings.

RULE IX.  The Head Master shall report to the Committee what Books,
Mathematical Instruments, Stationery, &c. may from time to time be wanted
for the purposes of the Institution.  He shall also furnish the
Committee, quarterly, with an account of such Books and Instruments lost,
or wilfully destroyed, as, in his opinion, ought to be charged to the
Pupils by whom they shall have been so lost, or destroyed.

RULE X.  The Head Master may suspend any of the other Masters, except the
Second, in the event of any flagrant misconduct; but he shall forthwith
give notice of such suspension to the Secretary, in order that it may be
submitted immediately to the decision of the Committee.

RULE XI.  The French Master shall attend the School, on such days, and
for such period in each day, as the Head Master may fix, with the
approval of the Committee.

RULE XII.  The Drawing Master shall attend the School under the same
regulation as is fixed in regard to the French Master.

RULE XIII.  The Head Master, and Second Master, may take Boarders, who
are Scholars of the Institution, but none others; such Scholars to be in
no case considered or treated as private Pupils.  The Head Master shall
not take more than Fifteen Boarders, and the Second Master not more than
Ten.

RULE XIV.  The Head and Second Master shall have the privilege of sending
their own sons as Pupils to the School, subject to the same rules as
affect the other Pupils, except the annual payments.

RULE XV.  The Head, Second, and Assistant Masters, are to attend in the
School Room, from Seven o'Clock in the Morning until Eight; from Ten in
the Day until One; from Three in the Afternoon until Five, from the 1st
of April to the 30th of September, inclusive; and from the 1st of
October, to the end of March, from Nine o'Clock, until Noon, and from
Half-past One, until Four, Holidays excepted.

RULE XVI.  None of the Masters shall be allowed to perform any duty, or
undertake any occupation, or employment, which shall in any way interfere
with their attendance and duties in the School.

RULE XVII.  No Master shall inflict corporeal punishment, except the Head
Master; and the cane only shall be used for that purpose.

RULE XVIII.  If any Master shall have cause of complaint, he is to state
it in writing to the Secretary, who will submit the same to the Committee
for their decision.



SECTION VI.
_Of the Pupils_, _and System of Education_.


RULE I.  The Pupils shall be admitted as prescribed by Rule VIII, Section
I.; but no Pupil shall be received into the School, until he shall have
acquired some knowledge of Reading and Writing, and of the two first
Rules of Arithmetic.

RULE II.  An efficient System of Education shall be adopted; embracing
the Latin, Greek, French, and English Languages and Literature;
Composition; Elocution; the Mathematics; and Drawing; and Lectures on
subjects connected with the Sciences and Arts, shall be occasionally
delivered by the Masters and others to all the Pupils, under the sanction
of the Committee, which the Proprietors, and Parents of Nominees, shall
be at liberty to attend.

RULE III.  The Madras System of Education, as practised at Charter House
School, shall be adopted, as far as it may be found available.

RULE IV.  A portion of the Scriptures and Prayer shall be read at the
commencement of the Morning, and the termination of the Afternoon, School
each Day.

RULE V.  A Public Examination of the Pupils shall take place in the week
previous to the Summer Vacation; the mode of such Examination to be under
the direction of the Committee.

RULE VI.  Eight days Holidays are to be allowed at Christmas, commencing
on Christmas Eve, and ending on New Year's Day; and Five Weeks in the
Summer, commencing on the Monday nearest the Twentieth of July.—The
Holidays at Easter are to commence on Good Friday, and end on Easter
Monday, both inclusive.—A half Holiday is to be allowed on Wednesday and
Saturday in each week.

RULE VII.  The Pupils shall punctually return to the School on the day
succeeding the conclusion of the Holidays, unless prevented by sickness,
(to be certified in writing,) or by any family calamity, under the
penalty of Ten Shillings.

RULE VIII.  In the event of any flagrant misconduct on the part of any
Scholar, it shall be competent for the Head Master immediately to suspend
him; and he shall report such suspension, with the cause thereof, to the
Visitors, for the information of the Committee, who shall decide thereon,
and may, if they see fit, confirm such suspension of the offending Pupil;
but an appeal shall lie from the Proprietor on whose Share the Scholar
was admitted to the School, to a General Meeting of Proprietors to be
convened for that purpose.



SECTION VII.
_Of the Property and Funds of the Institution_.


RULE I.  The Land, and the Building thereon, and all other Property of
the Institution, real and personal, shall be vested in Twelve Trustees,
to be elected from among the Proprietors, and shall be held by the said
Trustees for the purposes of the Institution.  They shall execute a Deed,
declaring the purposes of such Trust; and when they shall be reduced to
Three in number, the Proprietors, at a General Meeting, convened for that
purpose, shall fill up the number to Twelve; and thereupon a proper Deed
or Deeds shall be executed, for vesting the Property of the Institution
in the surviving and new Trustees, and declaring the Trusts thereof; and
so, from time to time, as often as may be necessary, for perpetuating the
Trusts.

RULE II.  Every transfer or bequest of a Share, and also the title of
every Assignee, Legatee, or Legal Representative, shall be entered in the
Register of the Institution; of which entry a Certificate shall be given
by the Secretary, and for which Certificate One Pound, over and above the
Stamp Duty, shall be paid to the Treasurers, to be carried to the general
Fund of the Institution.

RULE III.  Every Member of the Institution shall be furnished with one
Copy of the Rules.

                                * * * * *

Declaration to be signed by the Proprietors.—

We, whose names are here underwritten, being severally Proprietors of the
Institution, called The Western Grammar School, do hereby severally
declare for each of ourselves, and for our respective representatives,
that we have not and that we will not claim, any interests, rights,
privileges, or advantages, whatsoever, in the said School, or in the
monies, goods, chattels, or property, whatsoever, belonging to, or
supposed to belong to the same, excepting such interests, rights,
privileges, or advantages, as may be claimed by us or either of us, or
our representatives, by virtue of the Rules or Bye-Laws of the said
Western Grammar School, now made, or hereafter to be made, by the
majority of the Proprietors of the said Western Grammar School.

                                * * * * *

_Memorandum_.—The Secretary will keep a Register of Shares that may
become vacant, and of persons desirous of obtaining Shares.

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

                        TILLING, PRINTER, CHELSEA.

                                * * * * *




FOOTNOTE.


{1}  The book has short margin notes of each rule which have been omitted
in this transcription.  E.g. the note for Rule I. was "Proprietors and
number of Shares."—DP.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RULES OF THE WESTERN GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
BROMPTON***


******* This file should be named 62064-0.txt or 62064-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/2/0/6/62064


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.